# Thoughts on Cybersecurity Outsourcing

- Conventional management wisdom says "outsource things that are not your business's core competency, and only do in-house what truly adds value". The inference here is that the things to outsource are commodities, such as travel management, benefits management, payroll, transportation/shipping, or food service/janitorial services. It also stands to reason that you should outsource things that don't require a specialized knowledge of your business to perform. There are certainly aspects of IT and cybersecurity that could fall into this category.
- Many managers outsource just to realize the cost benefits of offshore labor. They are ecstatic to pay $30-100k/yr for a leveraged (shared) team to manage security technology such as firewalls, SIEM, EDR, Identity, etc. But unbeknownst to them, you can hire your own (dedicated) offshore FTE for a fraction of that price! MSP's make a killing on delivering managed services via leveraged teams.
- Average FTE base salary (L3 on a scale of L1-L5):
  - India: $25k
  - Philippines: $30k
  - China: $60k
  - Malaysia & Romania: $65k
  - Hungary: $70k
  - USA: $90-140k (by area)
- Fully loaded comp in India: College grad, 0 yrs exp: $12k;  1-2yrs: $16k; 2-4 yrs: $24k; 4-6 yrs: $33k; 6-9 yrs: $42k; 9+ yrs: $56k
- Source of above figures? Our insourcing diligence at O&M. First-hand numbers. We've hired over 600 India-based FTE in the past year to replace our MSPs, and saved $millions in the process.
- A minimum viable cybersecurity program needs to oversee: email security/anti-phishing; firewalls; remote access; web content filtering; vulnerability management; endpoint security; server security; active directory/identity; compliance & audit support; policy; awareness; threat detection & response; and 3rd party access. Clearly this isn't possible with less than 10 FTE, so parts of this will have to be outsourced/offshored or be IT's responsibility. This is why senior security staff, with experience across multiple of these domains, are in such high demand. They are needed to be advisors, consultants, and engineers designing secure solutions for IT or outsourced partners to operate.  Notice I didn't even put appsec, privileged access, cloudsec, compliance, privacy, or other security functions in that list - they may or may not be part of a cybersecurity program MVP depending on the org.
- In order to have a highly effective cybersecurity team, the team needs to understand the organization; the infrastructure, the applications, the data, business operations, and the cyber risks related to them. This is not a commodity function. You can certainly outsource the low-skilled button-clicking (and pay a premium in the process), but you can't outsource risk management.
- The standard outsourcing model uses one team, typically US-based, to design and implement a solution as a T&M based project, then hand that over to another leveraged offshore team to operate. The offshore team receives documentation on standard operating processes and procedures, but they are not skilled (typically 0-2 yrs experience) and are generally incapable of making any changes to the system. Any changes, minor patches, major version upgrades, new integrations, or other configuration is directed to the project team at a premium rate ($150-300/hr onshore, $75-150/hr offshore). This encourages a "run it forever on old technology" mindset as it keeps operating costs low, and also limits patching/maintenance to stay on current versions to fix functional and security issues.
- Small security teams (<10 FTE) are forced to outsource due to the limited number of staff to cover all the necssary program domains. Mid-size teams (10-50) might outsource commodity functions, but perform senior engineering and implementation in-house. if not all security operations as well.  Very large teams (>100) are likely to outsource the low-level operations simply for staff augmentation or follow-the-sun support where they do not have in-country FTE presence.
